# Design

The backend of our website is a SQLite database. The database has three tables, 'users', 'studysessions', and 'ratings'.

The 'users' table has three fields, id, username, and hash. id is implemented as a unique field, and increments by 1 every time a new account is created. This is necessary so that each user could be easily identified when we created a page displaying all study sessions created by the user. When a user registers, the user's selected username is inserted into the database, along with the hash of the users password. The password is hashed so that the password is not stored in the database in plaintext, which could be a major security risk.

The 'studysessions' table contains seven fields, id, name, description, rating, isactive, userid, and location. The id field, similar to the one implemented in the users table, is a unique field, and autoincrements with every study session entered into the database. We made a unique id identifier for the 'studysessions' table so that we could link user comments to individual study sessions. Users input name, description, and location of the study session into an HTML form, which is read and then inserted into the database. The default rating is five stars, and the rating is updated every time a user enters a new review (this exact process is detailed in the next section). The default status for isactive is set to true. Active status can be changed by the user by navigating to the My Study Sessions page. This page is a table with links that, when clicked, change the active status of their corresponding session to false. This was accomplished by creating links using Jinja that essentially called a python method called deactivate, and passed the study session's unique id to that method so we could set the session's isactive status to false. We also implemented a feature called edit, which essentially allows users to update their study sessions. We did this by implementing links that passed along the id of the selected study session, so that edit study session method could locate pertinent information that could be loaded into the edit form. Within that form, name of the study session remains not editable, as well as city and state, however, we made building and description fields editable so that users can update those fields. We used these types of links in a similar way when we created individual pages for each study session. Indeed, the ID of the study session was passed to the python method through the generated link, and then used to extract information from the database.

The 'ratings' table contains all comments and ratings (out of 5) that the user enters via the review form that exists on every individual study session page. The 'ratings' table has four fields, userid, rating, comment, studysessionid, and timestamp. The userid field is used to keep track of which user left each review. The rating field is used to record the numeric rating associated with a review. The comment field is used to record the actual comment left by a user. The studysessionid field is used to link each review to the study session users reviewed, and it stores the id of said study session.
